welcome to module 2 lesson three weekly
optimizations in this lesson we're going
to cover the weekly optimizations you
should be implementing in your Google ad
accounts to turn clicks into profits
let's open up our optimization workflow
template and jump back into it okay so
we're here now weekly tasks let's dive
through it first things first is you
want to get in the habit of every single
week you want to review your performance
Trends so you want to take a look at
your visibility metrics so such as
search impression share search loss to
rank search loss to budget search stop
impression share you want to look at
your cost metrics meaning how much have
you spent what's your cost per
conversion your cost per custom
conversion meaning cosper SQL cosper
converted user whatever that kpi is that
you're measuring against and you want to
look at volume how many conversions are
you getting what's the what is it
trending up is it trending down uh what
does that look like so you want to keep
an eye on those different things on a
week by week basis in Google ads there's
actually a a chart here that you can put
and you can map different metrics which
is quite nice so for example you can
really easy see the the trend of search
impr share here with this graph which is
great uh you can switch this to like
different things conversions uh
different things that you want to look
at and then you can map the chart or
what you can do is you can just uh
adjust the time frames so if you're
looking at like like the last seven days
and then you can compare it to the prior
period and then it'll give you a
percentage difference right so like just
looking here really quickly across the
board here uh our TW our search impr
pression share is actually down 25% over
the last seven days I would say when
you're when you're optimizing and you're
looking at things on a week-by-week
basis don't freak out like if if you
know like right now 25% down search
impression share doesn't mean we need to
freak out per se it just means uh
something might be up if you see it
happen consistently you know two weeks
in a row 3 weeks in a row a month in a
row then there's definitely something
that you need to to make a decision off
of I always say the the week over week
should be like a pulse and then the
month over month is more so where you're
making big decisions and the quarter
over quarter should be moving in the
right direction so with that being said
you also want to make sure when you're
looking at performance Trends you're
doing it by themes so the average search
impression share for non-brand is
different than the average search
impression share for brand and
competitive and RSA and so on and so
forth so if you're just looking at the
overall like this it might not be very
helpful uh so instead what you should do
is you should group your different
campaigns together by theme and then
report on the theme level so all of our
non-brand campaigns what's our
impression share all of our brand all of
our competitive all of our LSA and so on
and so forth and if your account is even
more complicated you might even break it
out by like non-brand and region so like
North America brand North America non
brand and then you can start to map that
performance over time and this is
something that you can build into uh a
dashboard and you know kind of automate
some of this work but if not you have
a simplified account you could also
create reports and Google ads to kind of
help do some of this heavy lifting but
uh this is the kind of visibility that
you need and having the ability to group
similar campaigns together by theme or
region or some sort of commonality is
how you manage big Google ad accounts
with hundreds of campaigns because maybe
you have hundreds of campaigns but 50
are non-brand 50 are competitive you
group them together and you can you now
you only have to look at two things
which is non-brand and competitive and
it makes it much more manageable so make
sure you're getting in the habit of
reviewing your performance Trends on a
week over- we basis even better if in
the future you can set up alerts uh to
automate you like automatically notify
you based on certain Trends next up is
to pause underperforming keywords so if
you notice certain keywords in your
account are not performing you can go to
your keyword section you can create a
filter so such for example I'm going to
come here and I'm going to go into one
of
these
campaigns and if I come here I can just
easily add a filter of let's just say
conversions and then I can say
conversions less than one and then I can
see any keywords that are
underperforming I'm actually going to
show you how to automate this work um in
a future lesson but you can see really
easily what are your keywords that have
no conversions and then you can sort by
cost and then understand which are the
ones that are hemorrhaging the the most
budget adding new relevant keywords so
when you're looking at your Search terms
report there are certain Search terms
that maybe it makes sense to add Ms
keywords or you can just go into the
Google ad Keyword Planner and find n new
keywords that you might not be covering
this is an opportunity to expand your
sculp expand your reach and it's a good
best practice to get in the habit of
next is pausing underperforming ads I'm
going to show you how to automate this
but this is as simple as just go to the
ad section in your account and then
pause any underperforming ads that you
notice are not performing for you
anymore right so if they've they spend 2
to 3x your Lobel cost per Target shut
them off and we'll talk about this more
in a later lesson adding new ads to
replace underperformers so if you notice
uh you have some underperformers ideally
greater than a 5% click the rate is kind
of what we aim for but if anything has
less than 5% uh you can compare it to
your average so if your average best
clickthrough rate is 2% and it has 1%
shut off the underperformer get a new
one into the mix so that way you can
continually improve your overall click
theough rate to help boost your expected
click theough rate to improve your
quality score your action item for this
lesson is to implement the weekly
workflow optimizations as shown in this
lesson I hope you received a ton of
value soar please share ad conversion
with your colleagues or leave us a
testimonial we appreciate spreading the
word see you in the next one
[Music]